docs/manual/source/Installation.rst, before:

.. index:: Installation and Deployment

.. |EM| replace:: :ref:`EM-type <EMtype>`
.. |UL| replace:: :ref:`UL-type <ULtype>`
.. |EMr| replace:: :ref:`EM-type result <EMtype>`
.. |ULr| replace:: :ref:`UL-type result <ULtype>`
.. |EMrs| replace:: :ref:`EM-type results <EMtype>`
.. |ULrs| replace:: :ref:`UL-type results <ULtype>`
.. |database| replace:: :ref:`database <Database>`

Installation and Deployment
===========================

Standard Installation
---------------------

SModelS is a Python library that requires Python version 2.6 or later (but not
version 3) with Python's setuptools and gfortran installed. Internally, SModelS uses the
following tools:


 * `Pythia 6.4.27 <http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0603175>`_
 * `NLL-fast <http://pauli.uni-muenster.de/~akule_01/nllwiki/index.php/NLL-fast>`_ 1.2 (7 TeV), 2.1 (8 TeV), and 3.1 (13 TeV)

These tools are built into SModelS and require gfortran, but they need not be installed separately.
In addition to setuptools, SModelS depends on the following *external* Python
libraries [*]_:

 * unum
 * numpy
 * argparse
 * docutils>=0.3
 * scipy>=0.9.0
 * pyslha>=3.1.0

If Python's *setuptools* is installed in your machine, SModelS and its dependencies
can be installed with::
  python setup.py install

If the python libraries are installed in a system folder (as is the default behavior),
it will be necessary to run the install command with superuser privilege.
Alternatively, one can run setup.py with the "--user" flag::
  python setup.py install --user

If *setuptools* is not installed, you can try to install the external libraries
manually and then rerun setup.py.
For Ubuntu, SL6 machines and other platforms, a recipe is given below.

There is also a diagnostic tool available: ::

   python smodels/tools/toolBox.py

should list and check all internal tools (Pythia and NLL-fast) and external
(numpy, scipy, unum, ... ) dependencies.

In case everything fails, please contact smodels-users@lists.oeaw.ac.at


Installation on Ubuntu 16.04
----------------------------

Installation on Ubuntu machines should be straightforward with superuser privileges
(if you do not have superuser privileges see instructions below):

 * sudo apt install gfortran python-setuptools python-scipy python-numpy python-docutils python-argparse
 * python setup.py install

Note that the last command can be run as superuser, or with the "--user" flag.


Installation on SL6
-------------------

Installation on an SL6 (Scientific Linux 6 or Scientific Linux CERN 6) machine
is tricky, because SModelS requires a more recent version of *scipy* than is provided by SL6.
We succeeded to install SModelS on SL6 by doing:

 * yum install gcc-c++ libstdc++-devel libevent-devel python-devel lapack lapack-devel blas blas-devel libgfortran python-distutils-extra

followed by:

 * pip install nose unum argparse numpy pyslha scipy

Note, that these steps can safely be done within a Python ``virtualenv``.
Pip can also be called with the "--user" flag.


Installation on SL5 and similar distributions
---------------------------------------------

In some distributions like SL5, the Python default version may be smaller than
2.6.  In these cases, ``virtualenv`` has to be set up for a Python version >=         2.6.  E.g. for Python 2.6, do ``virtualenv --python=python2.6 <envname>``,            and modify by hand the first line in the executable from ``#!/usr/bin/env python``
to ``#!/usr/bin/env python2.6``.
Then perform the steps listed under ``Installation on SL6``.



Installation on other platforms or without superuser privileges using Anaconda
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Another easy and platform independent way of installing SModelS
without superuser priviledges is via Anaconda (https://www.continuum.io/downloads).
Anaconda provides a local installation of pip as well as several additional python packages.
Here we assume a version of gfortran is already installed in your system.

 * download and install Anaconda for Python 2.7 (https://www.continuum.io/downloads)
 * make sure Anaconda's bin and lib folders are added to your system and python paths ::

    PATH="<anaconda-folder>/bin:$PATH"
    PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:"<anaconda-folder>/lib/python2.7/site-packages"
 
and then install SModelS as a user: ::
 
 python setup.py install --user

In order to make sure all libraries have been correctly installed, you can run ::
   
 python smodels/tools/toolBox.py


Adding results to the database
------------------------------


The installation procedure explained above also installs SModelS'
:ref:`database of experimental results <DatabaseDefinitions>`
in the smodels-database subdirectory.
The database version at the time of the SModelS v1.1.0 release is ``1.1.0
(Silvester 2016)'' and contains 133 results for testing new physics models. 
More concretely, these are 94
|ULrs| and 39 |EMrs| from 25 ATLAS and 23
CMS SUSY searches. Among these, 120 results are official ATLAS and CMS results
from Run 1 at 8 TeV. Ten |EMrs| were ''home-grown'' by us using MadAnalysis5 and
CheckMATE recasting.  Regarding the early 13 TeV data,
there are currently three results: two UL maps from CMS and one UL map from
ATLAS (this will be extended soon).
The database also includes 33 preliminary results from 13 ATLAS and 3 CMS notes
which were superseeded by published data; they are kept in the database for
information but are not used with default settings in SModelS.
The complete list of analyses and results included in the database can be
consulted at `http://smodels.hephy.at/wiki/ListOfAnalysesv11 <http://smodels.hephy.at/wiki/ListOfAnalysesv11>`_.
We note that all the results in the official database release have been
carefully validated  and the validation material can be
found at `http://smodels.hephy.at/wiki/Validationv11 <http://smodels.hephy.at/wiki/Validationv11>`_).

The database can conveniently be updated independently from SModelS code
updates. It suffices to unpack any new database tarball and replace the database
directory. In the same fashion, one can easily add additional results as
explained below.


.. _addingFastlim:

Adding FastLim data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The official SModelS database can be augmented with data from the
`fastlim <http://cern.ch/fastlim>`_ database.
A tarball with the *properly converted* fastlim-1.0 efficiency maps can be found in our
download section at `http://smodels.hephy.at <http://smodels.hephy.at/>`_.
The tarball then needs to be exploded in the top level directory of the database.

That is, the following steps need to be performed ::

 mv smodels-v1.1-fastlim-1.0.tgz <smodels-database folder>
 cd <smodels-database folder>
 tar -xzvf smodels-v1.1-fastlim-1.0.tgz
 rm smodels-v1.1-fastlim-1.0.tgz

Once the fastlim folders have been added to the database,
SModelS auto-detects fastlim results and issues an acknowledgement.
When using these results, please properly cite the fastlim paper; for
convenience, a bibtex file is provided in the smodels-fastlim tarball.


Adding one's own results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The :ref:`Database of Experimental Results <databaseStruct>`  is
organized as files in an ordinary directory hierarchy. Therefore,
adding additional experimental results is a matter of copying and editing text
files.  
Once the new folders and files have been added following the
:ref:`database structure format <folderStruct>`, SModelS
automatically rebuilds the binary (Pickle) database file.
The added results will then be available for using with the
the SModelS tools.


.. [*] The :ref:`database browser <databaseBrowser>` interface provided by smodelsTools.py also
   requires IPython. However, all the other SModelS functionalities are independent of IPython.

Commit message:

update installation info
Former-commit-id: 85bc3480c3c118cb7c52dbc11da1a797be5e7b41

docs/manual/source/Installation.rst, after:

.. index:: Installation and Deployment

.. |EM| replace:: :ref:`EM-type <EMtype>`
.. |UL| replace:: :ref:`UL-type <ULtype>`
.. |EMr| replace:: :ref:`EM-type result <EMtype>`
.. |ULr| replace:: :ref:`UL-type result <ULtype>`
.. |EMrs| replace:: :ref:`EM-type results <EMtype>`
.. |ULrs| replace:: :ref:`UL-type results <ULtype>`
.. |database| replace:: :ref:`database <Database>`

Installation and Deployment
===========================

Standard Installation
---------------------

SModelS is a Python library that requires Python version 2.6 or later (including
version 3) with Python's setuptools installed. Internally, SModelS uses the
following tools:

 * `Pythia 8.223 <https://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3012>`_ (requires a C++ compiler)
 * `Pythia 6.4.27 <http://arxiv.org/abs/hep-ph/0603175>`_ (obsolete)
 * `NLL-fast <http://pauli.uni-muenster.de/~akule_01/nllwiki/index.php/NLL-fast>`_ 1.2 (7 TeV), 2.1 (8 TeV), and 3.1 (13 TeV) (requires a fortran compiler)

These tools are built into SModelS and require gfortran and C++.
They need not be installed separately, as the SModelS build system takes care of that.
In addition to setuptools, SModelS depends on the following *external* Python
libraries [*]_:

 * unum
 * numpy
 * argparse
 * docutils>=0.3
 * scipy>=0.9.0
 * pyslha>=3.1.0

If Python's *setuptools* is installed in your machine, SModelS and its dependencies
can be installed with::
  python setup.py install

If the python libraries are installed in a system folder (as is the default behavior),
it will be necessary to run the install command with superuser privilege.
Alternatively, one can run setup.py with the "--user" flag::
  python setup.py install --user

If *setuptools* is not installed, you can try to install the external libraries
manually and then rerun setup.py.
For Ubuntu, SL6 machines and other platforms, a recipe is given below.

There is also a diagnostic tool available: ::

   python smodels/tools/toolBox.py

should list and check all internal tools (Pythia and NLL-fast) and external
(numpy, scipy, unum, ... ) dependencies.

In case everything fails, please contact smodels-users@lists.oeaw.ac.at


Installation on Ubuntu 16.04
----------------------------

Installation on Ubuntu machines should be straightforward with superuser privileges
(if you do not have superuser privileges see instructions below):

 * sudo apt install gfortran python-setuptools python-scipy python-numpy python-docutils python-argparse
 * python setup.py install

Note that the last command can be run as superuser, or with the "--user" flag.

Installation on SL7
-------------------

Installation on an SL7 or CentOS7 is straightforward:

 * yum install gcc-c++ scipy numpy

 * pip install unum pyslha argparse


Installation on SL6
-------------------

Installation on an SL6 (Scientific Linux 6 or Scientific Linux CERN 6) machine
is tricky, because SModelS requires a more recent version of *scipy* than is provided by SL6.
We succeeded to install SModelS on SL6 by doing:

 * yum install gcc-c++ libstdc++-devel libevent-devel python-devel lapack lapack-devel blas blas-devel libgfortran python-distutils-extra

followed by:

 * pip install nose unum argparse numpy pyslha scipy

Note, that these steps can safely be done within a Python ``virtualenv``.
Pip can also be called with the "--user" flag.


Installation on SL5 and similar distributions
---------------------------------------------

In some distributions like SL5, the Python default version may be smaller than
2.6.  In these cases, ``virtualenv`` has to be set up for a Python version >=         2.6.  E.g. for Python 2.6, do ``virtualenv --python=python2.6 <envname>``,            and modify by hand the first line in the executable from ``#!/usr/bin/env python``
to ``#!/usr/bin/env python2.6``.
Then perform the steps listed under ``Installation on SL6``.



Installation on other platforms or without superuser privileges using Anaconda
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Another easy and platform independent way of installing SModelS
without superuser priviledges is via Anaconda (https://www.continuum.io/downloads).
Anaconda provides a local installation of pip as well as several additional python packages.
Here we assume a version of gfortran is already installed in your system.

 * download and install Anaconda for Python 2.7 (https://www.continuum.io/downloads)
 * make sure Anaconda's bin and lib folders are added to your system and python paths ::

    PATH="<anaconda-folder>/bin:$PATH"
    PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:"<anaconda-folder>/lib/python2.7/site-packages"

and then install SModelS as a user: ::

 python setup.py install --user

In order to make sure all libraries have been correctly installed, you can run ::

 python smodels/tools/toolBox.py


Installation of C++ interface
-----------------------------

SModelS v1.1.1 comes with a simple C++ interface, see the cpp directory.
Obviously, a C++ compiler is need, alongside with the python developers
(header) files (libpython-dev on ubuntu, python-devel on rpm-based distros).


Adding results to the database
------------------------------


The installation procedure explained above also installs SModelS'
:ref:`database of experimental results <DatabaseDefinitions>`
in the smodels-database subdirectory.
The database version at the time of the SModelS v1.1.0 release is ``1.1.0
(Silvester 2016)'' and contains 133 results for testing new physics models.
More concretely, these are 94
|ULrs| and 39 |EMrs| from 25 ATLAS and 23
CMS SUSY searches. Among these, 120 results are official ATLAS and CMS results
from Run 1 at 8 TeV. Ten |EMrs| were ''home-grown'' by us using MadAnalysis5 and
CheckMATE recasting.  Regarding the early 13 TeV data,
there are currently three results: two UL maps from CMS and one UL map from
ATLAS (this will be extended soon).
The database also includes 33 preliminary results from 13 ATLAS and 3 CMS notes
which were superseeded by published data; they are kept in the database for
information but are not used with default settings in SModelS.
The complete list of analyses and results included in the database can be
consulted at `http://smodels.hephy.at/wiki/ListOfAnalysesv11 <http://smodels.hephy.at/wiki/ListOfAnalysesv11>`_.
We note that all the results in the official database release have been
carefully validated  and the validation material can be
found at `http://smodels.hephy.at/wiki/Validationv11 <http://smodels.hephy.at/wiki/Validationv11>`_).

The database can conveniently be updated independently from SModelS code
updates. It suffices to unpack any new database tarball and replace the database
directory. In the same fashion, one can easily add additional results as
explained below.


.. _addingFastlim:

Adding FastLim data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The official SModelS database can be augmented with data from the
`fastlim <http://cern.ch/fastlim>`_ database.
A tarball with the *properly converted* fastlim-1.0 efficiency maps can be found in our
download section at `http://smodels.hephy.at <http://smodels.hephy.at/>`_.
The tarball then needs to be exploded in the top level directory of the database.

That is, the following steps need to be performed ::

 mv smodels-v1.1-fastlim-1.0.tgz <smodels-database folder>
 cd <smodels-database folder>
 tar -xzvf smodels-v1.1-fastlim-1.0.tgz
 rm smodels-v1.1-fastlim-1.0.tgz

Once the fastlim folders have been added to the database,
SModelS auto-detects fastlim results and issues an acknowledgement.
When using these results, please properly cite the fastlim paper; for
convenience, a bibtex file is provided in the smodels-fastlim tarball.


Adding one's own results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The :ref:`Database of Experimental Results <databaseStruct>`  is
organized as files in an ordinary directory hierarchy. Therefore,
adding additional experimental results is a matter of copying and editing text
files.
Once the new folders and files have been added following the
:ref:`database structure format <folderStruct>`, SModelS
automatically rebuilds the binary (Pickle) database file.
The added results will then be available for using with the
the SModelS tools.


.. [*] The :ref:`database browser <databaseBrowser>` interface provided by smodelsTools.py also
   requires IPython. However, all the other SModelS functionalities are independent of IPython.
