/**
@page install Installation instructions

@tableofcontents


@section downloads Source file downloads

The source files can be downloaded from https://lhapdf.hepforge.org/downloads/


@section quickstart Quick start instructions

If you have a C++11 compiler, building LHAPDF >= 6.2 should be straightforward:

    wget https://lhapdf.hepforge.org/downloads/?f=LHAPDF-6.X.Y.tar.gz -O LHAPDF-6.X.Y.tar.gz
    # ^ or use a web browser to download, which will get the filename correct
    tar xf LHAPDF-6.X.Y.tar.gz
    cd LHAPDF-6.X.Y
    ./configure --prefix=/path/for/installation
    make
    make install

You will then need to install PDF data files, most easily using the "lhapdf"
manager script but also possible by manual download. See the LHAPDF website for
details.

On systems where you want to use non-system compilers and libraries, the
configure command will need to be a bit more complicated: see the following for
more information.

Version 6.2.0 of LHAPDF, and later, have no external library
dependencies. Earlier versions rely on the Boost C++ header library. We
recommend upgrading to the current series to avoid that complication (and
benefit from other improvements, too).


@section compilers Build tools

LHAPDF6 just needs your system to have a copy of Make and a C++11 compiler:
there is no Fortran code and hence no need for gfortran. We have tested with
both the g++ and clang++ compilers.

Note that fairly recent compiler versions are needed, to get C++11 support: g++
>= 4.8.5 and clang++ >= 3.3. The `-std=c++11` flag, if needed, will be added
automatically by the LHAPDF configure script.

Building LHAPDF is typically straightforward on Linux systems, including CC7
and Ubuntu. Mac OS X, however, can cause problems due to inconsistent compiler
and Python versions, and other such fun. If you want to build LHAPDF on a Mac,
please see @ref osx.


@subsection pyext Python

If you want to build the Python interface to LHAPDF (which is very nice!), you
will need the Python development headers to be installed (e.g. via the
`python-dev` Ubuntu package). If the `Python.h` header is not found by
`configure`, no Python extension module will be built.


@section lhapdf Building LHAPDF

If you have downloaded a release tarball for LHAPDF 6.X.Y, unpack it with `tar
xf LHAPDF-6.X.Y.tar.gz`, then `cd` to the newly-created directory.

@note If checking out from version control rather than unpacking a tarball,
again `cd` to the new directory, but you must then also run `autoreconf -i`
before proceeding to the instructions below. There will also be more
requirements for external packages if you build this way, since this is the
"developer" route to building LHAPDF and requires a bit more expertise.

Now you should run the `configure` script to analyse your machine, compiler,
etc. and set up the Makefiles. You will probably need to provide the `--prefix`
argument to `configure` to tell it where you want to install LHAPDF (probably
you don't want to install to `/usr/local`, which is the default). For example,

    ./configure --prefix=$HOME/local


@subsection altcomp Alternative compilers

If you want to use an alternative C++ compiler, then you can specify the CXX
variable on the command line. This is essential on OS X Mavericks and later,
where the consistent compiler suite is clang rather than gcc -- in that
situation, use:

    ./configure --prefix=... CXX=clang++

The configure script will run and produce quite a bit of output from its various
tests. Hopefully everything will be successful: if it gets to the end without
stopping due to an error then all is well.

Then just call `make` to build the library (or e.g. `make -j4` to compile 4
files in parallel -- if your machine has enough processor cores to do so, even
`-j2` will speed up the build quite a bit). To install LHAPDF to the `--prefix`
location that you specified, call `make install`. You will (or at least
*should(!) find installed files in `$prefix/lib`, `$prefix/include/LHAPDF`, and
`$prefix/share/LHAPDF`.


@section lxplus Building on lxplus / LCG Grid systems

CERN's lxplus7 system runs CC7 Linux, whose system compiler and Python installations are
sufficiently modern to compile LHAPDF (although the system compiler is not an official
LCG platform). No special environment setup is needed on lxplus7 unless you want to
interface with precompiled LCG software.

By contrast the older lxplus6 system runs SLC6, for which the system compiler is
neither supported by LCG nor LHAPDF. Unfortunately, previous setup recipes
posted here have become non-functional with passage of time: it is therefore up
to the user to figure out a SLC6 configuration capable of compiling C++11 source
code... or, better, to move to the newer system, which is now standard on LCG
computing resources.


@section osx Building on Mac OS X

Builds are typically straightforward on Linux, but Mac OS X unfortunately has a
long history of incoherent system compiler setups, which have been worked around
manually by users' private installations of Fink, MacPorts, HomeBrew and manual
tarball installations of required tools. These work-arounds can themselves be
the source of problems when the native compilers or Python libraries get
updated, and due to the ad hoc nature of such installations we are restricted in
how much we can help to get LHAPDF to compile on a broken system: it is the
user's responsibility to make sure that their machine has a consistent set of
build tools!

From experience, the simplest reliable route seems to be to
run a fresh copy of OS X 10.9 Mavericks (or later) without any additional manual
compiler installations: if you use the clang++ compiler on such a system,
LHAPDF6 building should "just work".

@note At the time of writing there is a bug in the Mac Python version which
requires that you call `export CPPFLAGS=-Qunused-arguments` and `export
CFLAGS=-Qunused-arguments` before building. Alternatively you can run the
configure script with `--disable-python`, which avoids the bug at the cost of
not building the very useful Python interface to LHAPDF.

The Mac OS X "Homebrew" system (http://brew.sh/) comes recommended by several
LHAPDF developers. Many HEP packages are already available for Homebrew via the
homebrew-hep project: http://davidchall.github.io/homebrew-hep/ . Success has
also been reported with the MacPorts system (http://www.macports.org/).
With both these approaches, you should set your environment to *only* use
compilers and Python from the Brew/Ports area and to ignore the system packages:
a hybrid approach will only cause unnecessary pain.

*/
